# Effects
These add procedurally generated effects to the level. Many of them manipulate pixels in the rendered image to make stuff, for example, look like they're drooping. Some effects may add decorative objects in the level, such as plants, grass, wires, chains, etc.

To create an effect, find the effect you want in the "Add Effect" window and click on it. The effect will be added to the "Active Effects" list. You can reorder each effect in the active effects list to change which order they are applied in. For example, you may not want your plants to have Rust and Slime on it, so you would have your Rust and Slime effect above your plant effect. You may also create multiple effects of the same type, which is useful for if you want an effect to have different options based on what area it's applied in, or if you only want an effect for a specific layer to be applied to a specific area.

In the editor, when you have an effect selected, you can paint green pixels in the "effect matrix" overlaid on top of the level view, which controls the strength of the effect at that area. Pink represents no effect, and green represents a stronger effect. Some effects, namely those in the "Plants (Individual)" category, have you place individual pixels instead of brushing over areas to create the effect.

BlackGoo is an especially notable effect. When you create a BlackGoo effect, it automatically fills in its matrix with maximum green. You then erase parts of the level that aren't solid using a big brush, though some pink is supposed to bleed into what is solid. BlackGoo creates a sort of "fog of war" effect, blacking out anything around the edges of a level, and it is used in pretty much every room in the game. An exception to this I can think of is Underhang, which is already dark enough that BlackGoo is not necessary.